guitarist will tell you the better the
wood the better the guitar the Gibson
guitar company had been using some
imported rosewood from India to make
their fret boards now let me explain the
fretboard this part right here they've
been doing that until one day last
August when of all things the federal
government raided the factory in
Nashville and confiscated Gibson supply
of rosewood Oh claiming the wood was
imported illegally according to the feds
the wood should have been finished by
workers in India and then sent over
rather than sending the wood unfinished
and letting American workers make the
fret boards right here criminal charges
were threatened but never filed the
company stood its ground hoping to get
the wood back this week Gibson CEO ended
the ordeal by settling with the Justice
Department so you wonder why is the
government clamping down on American
companies that just want to produce the
best product possible and for heaven
sakes Make It in America instead of
overseas joining me now in this very
first interview since the settlement is
Gibson guitar CEO Henry duska whit's
Henry this story I remember when it
happened a year ago I was stunned the
federal government barged into the
factory in Nashville tell me what
happened well I was pretty surprising
and you know what the second time they
did it so they had done that
approximately two years before and while
we were in the process of being
investigated and discussions they came
in again on a entirely different issue
which was the Indian wood they came in
with 30 SWAT attired people with
automatic weapons in two years factory
like he were making drugs or something
into three factories got him into three
factories they evacuated all our
employees into the parking lot they
turned off our video surveillance and
then they seized a lot of goods guitars
hard drives I had four people in my
office with guns
that wouldn't allow me in it was pretty
nightmarish what was the big issue
they said the wood and the fretboard it
was because it wasn't finished right
well in both cases of investigation that
there was a wood from a Madagascar and
then there was wood from India the wood
from India was it was endorsed by the
Ford stewardship council so we have an
environmental third-party NGO that comes
in and certifies that we're doing
everything right and so as shocking that
the government would seize on something
that was the whole point of this lacey
act that we were being investigated
under so you know there was nothing
wrong with it and the government's case
revolved around something that is a non
legal issue which is the tariff code
that was applied to the fingerboards and
in our settlement they agreed that there
was no problem with importing wood from
India nor the way that we were doing it
and they're returning the finger boards
they seized so basically after all of
this time guns a-blazing in your face
and everything they've done to virtually
scare the daylights out of your
employees a year later they say well
nothing's really wrong but you end up
having to settle with them just to get
them off your back and even further we
have not been able to import from a
major supplier which is India since they
did the raid and so we had to replace
all the raw materials they seized and
then we have to substitute other
materials with no notice and so it was
enormous ly disruptive and you had to
pay a settlement to the Justice
Department how much was that the
settlement was three hundred thousand
three hundred fifty thousand with
another piece of it
but frankly that that's you know small
potatoes to date since the first raid we
have spent 2.4 million dollars just in
legal fees addressing this issue and we
haven't been charged with any other
there's no trial had we gone to trial
legal fees would have been five six
million dollars minimum that's a lot of
guitars you you could have been selling
you know but today the pro will say the
president Governor Romney I personally
hope he will be the president but he I
think both these guys have a very
different attitude toward business than
maybe what you've experienced with the
Obama administration are you optimistic
that things would change if we have a
change of administration I think it
would considerably improve you know my
feeling and a lot of the people I talked
to that are in business is that you know
the current administration just does not
like business guys especially successful
business guy yeah and it doesn't matter
what business you're in and there's a
general distrust of what's happening in
Washington at this point well there
ought to be if somebody from the
government of the United States can walk
into your business shut you down mess
with you for a year cost you millions of
dollars that you can't get back for
reasons they can't even explain and
eventually walk away from their own
charges but still if you holding the bag
if that can happen to you it can happen
to every business owner in America and
if that's not a reason to scare the
daylights
Henry justice thank you so much thank
you great to have you